In this lecture, I'll be talking about labels. You've already used labels, but in this lecture I want to
show you some more possibilities.
Labels are key value pairs that can be attached to objects.
Labels are like tags in AWS or other cloud providers, used to tag resources.
If you've been using cloud then tags will be very familiar to you.
Labels are kind of the same thing.
You can label your objects, for instance, your pod following an organizational structure.
You can see I want to tag my pods using key, environment, and value.
Either dev, staging, qa, or prod. And then, you know whether your pod is part of your development environment
or any other environment.
You can also add another tag,
you maybe have multiple departments, so you could say, "I'm going to tag all my pods and I'm going to
see this is going to be from engineering,
these pods are running software for finance, or these pods are running software for marketing".
In our previous examples I have already been using labels to tag pods.
This is how it looks,
I always add labels,
for instance, the "app: helloworld".
Labels are not unique and multiple labels can be added to one object.
Once labels are attached to an object,
you can use filters to narrow down the results.
This is called the label selectors. Using label selectors,
you can use matching expressions to match the labels.
For instance a particular pod can only run on a note labeled with an "environment" equals "develop".
More complex matching is also possible,
you can say an environment needs to be either "development" or "qa". In earlier lectures,
I have been using note labels for the services. The service has had a label selector to select the correct
pod that the service was going to be for.
You can also use labels to tag nodes. Once nodes are tagged,
you can use the label selector to let pods only run on specific nodes.
There are two steps required to run a pod on a specific set of nodes.
First you tag the node itself,
then you add the note selector to your pod confirmation.
It can be to a single pod or a pod template within,
for instance, a "deployment".
The first step is to add a label or multiple labels to your notes and you can do that using
"kubectl label nodes".
You just specify the node name and then the label that you want to give it using the equals value.
Secondly, you add a pod that uses those labels.
Here we have a pod definition and we just added the "nodeSelector".
This "nodeSelector" says, hardware needs to be "high-spec".
This pod will only run on notes that have the label "high-spec".
I will show you how this works using a deployment with a node a later in the next demo.